Button and link a11y docs (#924)
Shopify/polaris-react: src/components/Button/README.md

- To learn how to combine or lay out multiple buttons, [use the button group component](/components/actions/button-group)
- To embed an action into a line of text, [use the link component](/components/navigation/link)

---

> ## Accessibility

Author: This section is quite long for the button in particular. I'd love any thoughts on whether it should be presented differently. There's discussion about the formatting in the PR thread for supporting the content (https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-styleguide/pull/2493).

> <!-- content-for: android -->

Author: iOS and Android content for the button page, since there are separate tabs. We don't currently have native-specific guidance so I've linked to the platform best practices.

Author: @sadiesaurus The sections here display on the web, iOS, and Android tabs in the UI in the style guide, which is what the `<! content-for: ...>` tags are doing in the file. The *Mobile-specific example* screenshot is showing what would show up for Android on that tab, while the other specific content shows up for each tab specified. That's what the first item in the 🎩 recommendations is doing, pulling from the PR that @kaelig worked on to do this formatting. Let me know if that's clear!

Reviewer: Ohhhh, yes now I see. I didn't 🎩 it properly last time. This works well! 

Please disregard my comment! 😅

Reviewer 2: I agree that headings would help with the Markdown readability in GitHub itself. I couldn't find a solid and elegant way to make it work :/

@BPScott and I might have cycles to look into it later this year.

<!-- /content-for -->

<!-- content-for: ios -->

See Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines and API documentation about accessibility for iOS:

- [Accessible design on iOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/accessibility/)
- [Accessible development on iOS](https://developer.apple.com/accessibility/ios/)

<!-- /content-for -->

<!-- content-for: web -->

### Structure

Buttons can have different states that are visually and programmatically conveyed to merchants.

- Use the `ariaControls` prop to add an `aria-controls` attribute to the button. Use it to point to the unique `id` of the content that the button manages.
- If a button expands or collapses adjacent content, then use the `ariaExpanded` prop to add the `aria-expanded` attribute to the button. Set the value to convey the current expanded (`true`) or collapsed (`false`) state of the content.
- Use the `disabled` prop to set the `disabled` state of the button. This prevents merchants from being able to interact with the button, and conveys its inactive state to assistive technologies.

#### Navigation

> Merchants generally expect buttons to submit data or take action, and expect links to navigate. If you use the “url” prop to pass a value to the button, then the control outputs with an anchor styled as a button instead of an HTML button.

Author: ```suggestion
Merchants generally expect buttons to submit data or take action, and expect links to navigate. If you use the `url` prop to pass a value to the button, then the control outputs with an anchor styled as a button instead of an HTML button.
```

For more information on making accessible links, see the [link component](/components/navigation/link).

### Labeling

The `accessibilityLabel` prop adds an `aria-label` attribute to the button, which can be accessed by assistive technologies like screen readers. Typically, this label text replaces the visible text on the button for merchants who use assistive technology.

Use `accessibilityLabel` for a button if:

- The button’s visible text doesn’t adequately convey the purpose of the button to non-visual merchants
- The button has no text and relies on an icon alone to convey its purpose

To help support merchants who use speech activation software as well as sighted screen reader users, make sure that the `aria-label` text includes any button text that’s visible. Mismatches between visible and programmatic labeling can cause confusion, and might prevent voice recognition commands from working.

When possible, give the button visible text that clearly conveys its purpose without the use of `accessibilityLabel`. When no additional content is needed, duplicating the button text with `accessibilityLabel` isn’t necessary.

<!-- usageblock -->

#### Do

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Button>Edit shipping address</Button>
```

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Heading>Shipping address</Heading>
<Button accessibilityLabel="Edit shipping address">Edit</Button>
```

#### Don’t

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Button accessibilityLabel="Change your shipping address">Edit</Button>
```

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Button accessibilityLabel="Edit">Edit</Button>
```

<!-- end -->

#### External links

> If the button component is used to create a link to an external resource:

Reviewer: To avoid passive voice + give agency to the reader:

```suggestion
When you use the button component to create a link to an external resource:
```

> - Use the `external` prop to make the link open in a new tab (or window, depending on the merchant’s browser settings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `external` prop to make the link open in a new tab (or window, depending on the merchant’s browser settings)
```

> - Use the `icon` prop to add the `external` icon to the button.

Reviewer 3: This is outside the scope of this PR, but doing this causes the external icon to be rendered to the left of the button text, which isn’t what I’d expect as a sighted user (usually such icons follow the content). I’d like to make the `external` prop add a trailing icon automatically. Maybe something for an a11y bug bash?

Author: Already on it! 😆 https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-ux/issues/146

> - Use the `icon` prop to add the `external` icon to the button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `icon` prop to add the `external` icon to the button
```

> - Use the `icon` prop to add the `external` icon to the button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `icon` prop to add the `external` icon to the button
```

> - Use the `accessibilityLabel` prop to include the warning about opening a new tab in the button text for non-visual screen reader users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `accessibilityLabel` prop to include the warning about opening a new tab in the button text for non-visual screen reader users
```

For more information on making accessible links, see the [link component](/components/navigation/link).

<!-- usageblock -->

#### Do

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Button accessibilityLabel="Terms and conditions (opens a new window)" icon="external" url="http://example.com" external>Terms and conditions</Button>
```

#### Don’t

> ```JSX

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```jsx
```

<Button url="http://example.com" external>Terms and conditions</Button>
```

<!-- end -->

### Keyboard support

Buttons use browser defaults for keyboard interactions.

> Give buttons keyboard focus with the <kbd>tab</kbd> key (or <kbd>shift</kbd> + <kbd>tab</kbd> when tabbing backwards)

Author: ```suggestion
- Give buttons keyboard focus with the <kbd>tab</kbd> key (or <kbd>shift</kbd> + <kbd>tab</kbd> when tabbing backwards)
```

> Give buttons keyboard focus with the `tab` key (or `shift` + `tab` when tabbing backwards)

Author: I realized we don't have a clean way to style the key info like the library does, since it's pulling from a `.md` file. Right now I've formatted this info to appear like other monospace text.

Reviewer 2: We've been using the `<kbd>` tag, would this work?
```suggestion
Give buttons keyboard focus with the <kbd>tab</kbd> key (or <kbd>shift</kbd> + <kbd>tab</kbd> when tabbing backwards)
```

Author: Fixed with https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-styleguide/pull/2527!

> Activate buttons with the <kbd>enter</kbd>/<kbd>return</kbd> key or the <kbd>space</kbd> key.

Author: ```suggestion
- Activate buttons with the <kbd>enter</kbd>/<kbd>return</kbd> key or the <kbd>space</kbd> key
```

> Activate buttons with the `enter`/`return` key or the `space` key.

Author: ```suggestion
Activate buttons with the <kbd>enter</kbd>/<kbd>return</kbd> key or the <kbd>space</kbd> key.
```

#### Custom key events

> The `onKeyDown`, `onKeyPress`, and `onKeyUp` props can be used to create custom events for buttons. This allows buttons to be used for complex, custom interactions like drag-and-drop interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `onKeyDown`, `onKeyPress`, and `onKeyUp` props to create custom events for buttons. With these props, you can use buttons to create complex, custom interactions like drag-and-drop interfaces. 
```

- [Accessible development on Android](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/ui/accessibility/)

<!-- /content-for -->

<!-- content-for: ios -->

See Apple’s Human Interface Guidelines and API documentation about accessibility for iOS:

- [Accessible design on iOS](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/accessibility/)
- [Accessible development on iOS](https://developer.apple.com/accessibility/ios/)

<!-- /content-for -->

<!-- content-for: web -->

Buttons can have different states that are visually and programmatically conveyed to merchants.

- Use the `ariaControls` prop to add an `aria-controls` attribute to the button. Use the attribute to point to the unique `id` of the content that the button manages.
- If a button expands or collapses adjacent content, then use the `ariaExpanded` prop to add the `aria-expanded` attribute to the button. Set the value to convey the current expanded (`true`) or collapsed (`false`) state of the content.
- Use the `disabled` prop to set the `disabled` state of the button. This prevents merchants from being able to interact with the button, and conveys its inactive state to assistive technologies.

> - Use the `ariaPressed` prop to add an `aria-pressed` attribute to the button. Use the `pressed` prop to add a pressed-style to the button as well.

Author: Added to document use for `ariaPressed` and `pressed`: https://github.com/Shopify/polaris-react/pull/984
